and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we
share useful podcasts
actionable marketing tips guides bonus
resources and much more every monday to
start your week off with a bang you can
sign up over at business growth dot
email
joining me today we've got chris walker
chris is the founder and ceo over at
refine labs and he's also the host of
the state of demand gen podcast
chris welcome to the show mate how's it
going hey sam really good to be here and
uh yeah looking forward to sharing some
ideas with your uh the community
no worries man so we're gonna be talking
about a fresh topic we're gonna be
chatting all things dark social
and how you can utilize it to grow your
company's bottom line grow their sales
grow their revenue so first and foremost
chris i know something you talk a lot
about on your podcast on your live
sessions for anyone that doesn't know
what does dark social really mean sir
yeah and i think it's interesting as we
continue to evolve and expand the
concept to continue to
share as we get new data and new
questions for people to share more of
the information that we're learning this
is a topic that is relatively new it's a
it's a concept that had been first
mentioned in two around 2013 or 14 which
referenced
when people would take content from
uh facebook and send in a message to
somebody else where you couldn't track
and with the evolution of the internet
from 2014 to now there's been a major
change in how how it actually works
which is that through the scale and the
maturity of the internet b2b buyers are
now researching discovering and
purchasing and evaluating products in
places where companies can't track
those are communities social networks
content platforms like spotify or an
apple
apple podcast or youtube
third-party events
um that would happen with like a vc or
pe firm all these places where the key
is that five or seven years ago there
were not the connection points for b2b
buyers to interact with their peers
peers that they trust like they can now
because they didn't have access to their
peers in 2014
they got information to make buying
decisions in specific places those
places where google search
vendor sales reps or websites
analyst firms like gartner or technology
vendors or things like that and now
because of the way that they have access
to peers which has accelerated since the
pandemic in 2020 forward now these
people that
are 40 or 50 year old business
professionals that used to not listen to
podcasts every week that used to not use
linkedin every day that used to not go
to meetups or community events that
happen on a weekly basis now do all of
those things
and then because they do them they get
information from specific places that
they trust more than the places where
they used to get information and so the
key is where b2b buyers get information
that they use to make purchasing
decisions has shifted and b2b companies
go to market strategies have not
adjusted to this reality
yeah
so would you say that dark social is
a more technical more detailed term for
word-of-mouth marketing or is there a
lot of more to it than that
so it depends on how you look at
word-of-mouth marketing right um sure so
i think a lot of people when they think
about word-of-mouth marketing really
constrain it to only thinking about
somebody referring saying hey go buy
this thing now
and when you actually think about word
of mouth and the scale of the internet
there's way more to it now than there
was in 1950 where if you had a mailbox
that you liked you told your neighbor
about it
now if you have a mailbox that you like
or whatever b2b product that you like
you can tell thousands of people at
scale all the time
and so and it's not like hey go and buy
that right now it's hey i'm sharing this
here's a picture i got this mailbox so i
got this new software tool i'm liking it
so the the scale has changed completely
through the internet and it's not only
about referring products it's about
sharing ideas consuming content learning
places that people used to go to blogs
to learn stuff
in 2014 now they get those things they
don't go to websites anymore they get
that access inside of social networks
through the content and companies that
have not transitioned their content
strategy out of search
to social dark social that is
um
i think are are leaving a lot of upside
on the table
yeah
and how does how does dark social tend
to
begin so for a company that's thinking
that's perhaps tuning in and thinking
this sounds quite interesting perhaps
not something i know a great deal about
right now
how is it something that
businesses can get stuck into what
should be almost i guess a playbook
that they can adapt if it's something
that they want to utilize at their
company yeah i um
the way to look at this is that
pretty much all b2b companies are sales
companies not marketing companies and
even if they have a marketing department
that marketing department is mainly
helping their sales team do sales or
running lead gen which is basically
pre-sales
and so because of that they
do certain activities they measure
marketing in a certain way and they
spend money in certain places because of
the channels and the goals
and so when you see that most companies
spend money in lower funnel channels to
run lead gen to capture email addresses
to report back on certain things and so
they're waiting for people to go to
review sites they're waiting for people
to search i want to buy your software in
google they're waiting for people to
come to your website they're waiting to
get intent data to go and do cold
calling or outbound
and what they're waiting for is that
they're waiting for a very small part of
the market to enter a buying cycle and
then when they enter a buying cycle they
are not they are brand agnostic and then
your brand is going to fight against
five or six other competitors or
whatever is in the space in order to win
that business
and at some point somebody in your
category will eventually realize that
dark social is how b2b buying decisions
get made they will leapfrog all of you
they'll win in dark social people won't
even go to those places anymore because
they'll already be decided and they will
buy your stuff
and so that's why my business is growing
so quickly it's why some of the
companies that we work with are seeing
massive gains over doing this for a long
period of time is because the way the
companies market right now is running is
mainly marketing to a very small portion
of the market that's in a buying cycle
because they think about everything like
sales and if they shifted it and they
actually started to do real marketing
and real marketing is so the market
understands what you do and has affinity
to your company so that when they
realize they need something like you
they choose you instead of evaluating a
bunch of other competitors that's
marketing that if companies started to
really think about marketing differently
they would win a lot more customers and
they would get more people to actually
buy buy into the category overall
yeah
okay so when when we talk inbound
marketing um i guess a few things that
come to my mind being a web and seo
agency co-owner i'm thinking seo i'm
thinking paid ads but perhaps i'm also
so literally someone searching for your
product or service on google
perhaps like you say stumbling across
maybe a review site or maybe stumbling
across your website if your position
there with google ads or perhaps your
position through seo doing organic
search
seo work yourself or with an agency um
and then perhaps you've got other ways
of running demand generation
perhaps you're doing different forms of
driving people to your site building up
some kind of demand whether it's social
or
other ways to kind of build up brand
recognition and
but how do these
how do these strategies so you mentioned
they're building up brand affinities so
like you say quite rightly if someone
if i'm searching for a product or
service or if another company is doing
the same if they're going to google
they're probably already quite quite far
down in that cycle they realize that
they actually need the help of the
service let's say it's a software
product and they're probably comparing
two to three agencies
before they decide to make the decision
um
how can we
let's say how can we beat that rat race
and how can we position ourselves as the
as the choice rather than having to
almost tender for the work when we're
fighting against two or three maybe more
companies
yeah so if you break this into two
separate things which is creating demand
and then capturing demand and you audit
your marketing activities what you
realize is that a majority of what you
spend your money on majority of where
you focus is on capturing demand which
is a small amount of the market that has
intent that's looking to buy stuff which
is more so
in sales and so what i'm suggesting here
is that companies create another layer
to their marketing or go to market
strategy
where you are marketing to people that
do are not in a buying cycle right now
with the objective of over time moving
more people into buying cycles for your
category and your stuff
and when they if you're moving work
through that education cycle over time
where somebody is not aware of the
problem that your product or your
category solves and you work them
through that over a three or six month
period of time as they get information
they start to share it in their
company's slack channels they start to
bring up the ideas and information in
their company meetings they start to
look in communities and then now that
they're aware of you they start to see
other people talking about how they use
your product inside of communities or
slack channels or things like that
they then call a couple of cmos or
whatever title they are their peers and
they do zoom meetings or text messages
of people that they trust and say hey
what's your experience been with this
and then all of a sudden six months
later
those people no longer go to google and
review sites and say hey which company
am i going to buy and they just go
straight to google type in your brand
convert and they only consider you as
the vendor because you position yourself
as the only choice
and so the problem with most categories
in b2b marketing right now is that there
are three to seven or more core players
in each category and to a average buyer
it's a complete commodity
they don't know anything about the
differences in the product the messaging
is generally about the same
the and when they get there it's like
there there is
you are positioned from the buyer as a
commodity as opposed to if you win
earlier when your competitors don't you
get positioned as unique special
differentiated um and so this is a layer
of marketing that requires new
measurement the reason that marketers
don't do this inside of their companies
is because of how marketing is scored
and how attribution works in their
companies which is primarily based on
software
and when you use software you can't it's
called dark social for a reason software
does not accurately measure it and it
does not create intent data therefore
you are not going to have
a perfect way to measure it using
software there are ways to measure it
there are definitely ways to measure it
it's just not with software and so i'm
encouraging companies to think
differently about how they weight
attribution and look at other ways
because as buyers continue to move to
these places using more and privacy
policies are not going backwards
that as they continue to move here if
you don't change how you measure
marketing you're basically keeping your
marketers stuck in the past
yeah
so you mentioned something interesting
there just now chris positioning your
business or company as the only choice
so
that's probably music to most people's
ears is they're thinking i don't have to
battle to win deals i don't have to
compare against three or four other
companies when when inbound comes in
they're going straight to us because
they believe
that we can do the job and they're
almost ready to to convert and get get
the project started at that stage
what are some best practices and feel
free to use your own examples of how
you've done it yourself or for companies
or people you've helped for
actually making that happen because it's
not a quick thing right we can't just do
a couple posts on linkedin or do a few
youtube videos a few podcasts and then
job done our branded affinity is built
the inbound leads are flowing they're
fully qualified and they're ready to
talk to sales
yes so
what people see on the outside is the
marketing coming to life that they
actually see but what they don't see
underneath the whole iceberg is the
strategy that drives this
and so and a lot of companies don't
think about it this way but in order to
build a truly unique differentiated
solution you need to do proper
segmentation
you need to be able to segment your
customers deeply which then will drive
product strategy so as you segment
further your product can be more narrow
more specific which will then drive your
messaging and positioning strategy
so then you'll be able to with a
segmented audience with a dif with a
differentiated clear product for that
audience that other people are either
under serving or not serving then you
drive messaging on your website then
you go and create content for dark
social which is what people see as you
educate that specific group about the
specific things that they need to know
in order to be ready to consider or have
affinity to to consider your product
and so because companies think it's just
about
putting out some content that's where
the miss is
there's actually multiple layers before
you start thinking about content that
creates a differentiation to be clear
these can be happening in parallel in
real time right i'm not like a theorist
here i understand practicality which is
that you need to go out and get revenue
right now and you also need to start to
position yourself which is what we've
done at my business right our messaging
continues to evolve we do a major
refresh about every six months as we
continue to learn and as we continue to
refresh our product and refine our icp
and so while most companies as they grow
their icp gets broader
sorry about that as the as their icp
gets broader let's try and sell to more
people more segments more stuff we've
actually gotten more narrow
right less segments more specific
because it's very clear the types of
people and the types of companies that
are ready for what we're doing
um and we're in a recurring revenue
model business like just like most
people that are listening to the show
probably or most people listen to my
podcast at least and when you're in a
recurring revenue model business like
have a company with the right mindset
that's going to be there for a long time
and have a high lifetime value is all
all about what it is so that's what we
focus on
got it so let's get a bit actionable
here and let's break down some of those
points you just mentioned about
segmenting audience
make sure your website can convert and
then actually producing content that's
going to build up that brand affinity
make people believe that you are the
choice to to go with to help them
ultimately get the results they desire
before you look at perhaps a dutch
social demand gen strategy
what are some things that you should
ultimately have in place first of all so
let's let's give a prep scenario here
perhaps we're a b2b sas company perhaps
we're a software co maybe we've
maybe we up to now we've kind of
leveraged our network we've leveraged
our friends our contacts perhaps we've
let's say we've got maybe we've got 50k
monthly recurring revenue just from that
and we're kind of looking to ramp up to
do our first million um
in sales
and we've heard of dark social we think
yeah let's let's give this a go we want
to ramp up a demand gen strategy but
before we go all guns blazing
what are some things that we should have
as our core marketing strategy so we can
start inbound leads flowing before we go
all into this
so i think uh with companies at the
stage in the scenario that you pointed
out which is 50k mrr which is less than
a million dollars in revenue they
probably have somewhere between 10 and
30 people depending on how much money
they've raised
what they think they need at this stage
is a growth marketer to help them do
lead gen for their 12 sales reps that
don't have enough demand in their
starving so like they've over hired
sales reps and they think they need one
marketer to come and save the day on
lead gen which is what most of these
companies at that stage do what you
really need at this stage is a
strategist you need a marketing
strategist that can understand all parts
of the of the journey the go to market
strategy
the segmentation and positioning pricing
and distribution
um
product roadmap and things like that you
need somebody that can go and understand
customers put together a strategy and
drive the organization forward and i've
just found in my experience that a lot
of ceos are not capable of doing that
there are some
but
in my experience not not enough and i
think that you need to consider having
that person in before you go and run
lead gen and things like that and what
that person's going to do first is
they're going to look at business data
they're going to segment your customers
understand who's paying you who's
churning why is that happening who are
staying for the longest who are the
happiest what is the leading metric of
retention they're going to look at
business data understand that they're
going to slice and dice customers using
firmographic data that they can find or
other obvious slices
then they're going to go out and talk to
those segments of customers and on both
people that pay you
and people that could pay you but don't
right now so customers the market
they're going to talk to both of those
groups and they're going to start to
understand how do these people use the
product where is the actual value which
segments are ones that we want to
continue to focus on which are the ones
where we're highly differentiated and
why where there's no other solutions
and then they're going to come back and
say i know that we're going after these
seven segments
but six three of them are using it
because of our network and they would
churn if they weren't friends with our
investors
two of them i've they said that they
don't really use the product
and then the other two
were like these this is really working
for me but there was one of them was
like there's no other option for me and
this is a major business problem
and so out of all these seven i'm
suggesting that while we're 50k mrr that
we consider slicing this down to only
focus on this one
when we only focus on this one guess
what happens after that one
they ju we just talk to people that
don't pay us and people that pay us and
they all said that there is a major need
for this there's a clear economic and
emotional value proposition and there's
no alternative to solving this except
for using spreadsheets
so there's a clear opportunity here if
we focus on that what's happening right
now is because we're focusing on all
seven the messaging the product is too
wide and not specific to them so they
don't even know that we're trying to
that we're we're right for them
so we're going to segment down and only
focus on them
at the same time then we're going to
start to revamp the messaging and
positioning we're going to redo that on
the website and then we're going to
start to build the product roadmap
around that group
when we build the product roadmap around
that group we start to build a much
different product because of how
specific we've gotten in segmentation
then you have a
defined segment that you're going after
you have a new website with specific
messaging you have a product roadmap
that's going you can then start to
direct your enablement and your sales
team going in the right direction to a
place where they have a high probability
of winning
what i call an unfair competitive
advantage we've done market research and
we understand that in this segment we
have an unfair competitive advantage to
win for x y and z reasons the sales team
is going to win more just by having the
focus on that or where message has been
validated
and then after all that work has been
done which is a three to six month
project then we're going to think about
how are we going to actually build
content and communication to get to
exactly these people to educate them
over time in the places that they like
what is the content going to be about
what do they care about who are the
influencers that they listen to what are
the channels that they consume content
on
like
where do they go
in order to make buying decisions where
do they get that information and as you
start to piece that together then you
put together the content strategy that
matches that exact audience with your
new messaging and new product
and that is what a uh that is probably
the most valuable thing the most
valuable activity that a
you know sub 1 million ar company could
do frankly a sub 30 million ar company
could do probably too
is to really think about that because i
work with hundreds of businesses and
very few of them do that and segment
that way do you think that's something
that's often neglected actually talking
to perhaps your best customers right now
and understanding what's
what's most important to them perhaps
the the prob are we talking about get on
a side note talking about getting
getting deep on the problems they come
to you with are we talking about
understanding
yeah i think it's like a i think it's a
lack of a lack of curiosity a lack of
training and understanding in order how
to ask questions and then interpret the
answers
like i'm say i say things to see how
people will react
when i'm on a live event and i say
something and i see 30 people in in on
the zoom up here like nodding their
heads or doing something like that i
know that something was working right
there if i'm one-on-one with some
someone and i make a statement and they
re react a certain way i don't care what
they say i felt the reaction
i sat inside of sales calls live with
people and i've watched a sales person
make a pitch and i've watched the two
people that they're pitching to and i
just see the non-verbal cues that they
provide which give me insights as to
what's working what's not and why
so there's a huge element of this about
having the understanding and the
curiosity of what is this person
actually trying to say to me not trying
to take it directly because if you get
it directly customers are going to tell
you i want better faster stronger
and so it's really understanding what
are the question tracks what am i trying
to dive into how do i use my intuition
to understand what these people actually
need
and some of the stuff you get easy
they'll tell you straight away but it's
part of it is diving deep to understand
it and then once you understand it
making a declarative statement that they
come back and and say affirmative yes
like that is correct about me
you went through and were like
i'm using it for for these couple of use
cases and then i i talk through what are
the alternatives and they're like i
could do this or this or this and so
based on what you've told me like out of
these things this might be the best
solution what do you think
and you can get to a track where you
start to understand what are these
people actually trying to say but i
think the key here
is a lot of people have happy ears when
they do this a lot of people are not
uh are coming from the wrong position so
they're not looking at things
strategically long-term they're thinking
about how do i get this customer to buy
from me right now
yeah they hear the wrong things they
interpret the data wrong they ask the
wrong questions because they're focused
on closing a customer not learning and
building a strategy
yeah yeah i mean it's it's easy to get
happy as right it's easy to see what
perhaps especially in the b2b software
as a service industry to see perhaps
what your competitors are doing maybe
copy their messaging on their website
copy their call to actions run the same
kind of ads they do
um and just do everything the same but
stick your logo stick your brand colors
on it so that that's always the quick
array um but like you say it's not until
you you actually speak to some of your
customers to really understand what what
makes them tick what they really care
about what's going on right now
um
but we won't dive too much into that
because we've we've got a bit of a
strict timeline but with that let's say
we've done that research
before we start
trying to educate perhaps we've second
segmented thought about the audience you
really want to drill down to and target
and get in front of before we um
start looking at putting out content
distributing it
do you think that
if we're carrying on the scenario that
we're kind of perhaps at 50k a month and
we want to ramp things up to get towards
a million plus do you think we should
look to capture existing demands so
should we do what we talked about
earlier should be would you recommend
running seo running google ads so we can
capture demand that's there even though
we'll be competing against
say a few other agencies but at least
that way we can feed ourselves team
leads before we start putting out this
content and educating our audience or
should we be doing all of that
all in one hit
i think it depends on
the capitalization of the company the
growth ambitions really where you are
um and what resources that you have in
order to get things done
and so like me personally at my company
we spent not a minute on seo we don't
buy google ads
what we focused on was putting out dark
social content in places that have clear
attention and scale and we've been
dedicated to making being the best on
the channels that work the best right
now
and so a lot of companies would rather
try and and be okay or mediocre at the
channels that work the best seven years
ago which is what a lot of companies do
in seo
and because of the shift that we talked
about about how buyers get information
buyers trust what their peers say on
linkedin or in a community or at an
event with their pe firm way [__]
more than they do about what they read
on a blog from your company that they
find in google
and until you acknowledge that
difference about where people get
information and what they trust it might
change how you think about your strategy
so for us
like we spent zero time on seo it's been
100 focused on dark social paving the
way because i would much rather be
moving forward about where buyers are
going and be with them
than be way behind working on things and
that's just generally what's go what
happens with b2b is because the some
channel emerges it takes three years for
a company to say hey this is something
that's real it takes two more years for
gartner and those companies to say hey
this is how you should measure that
channel and then by the time companies
start executing the opportunity is over
it's flooded it's expensive and mature
and buyers have already moved to the
next thing and so because of again how
companies measure and how they get it
where they get information to drive
strategy lead them to doing things that
are not current with what buyers do
right now
why not do both like in your case for
example couldn't your
route to revenue have been a lot higher
i appreciate that like in my example
let's let's use me as an example perhaps
we generate i don't know well clear of
six figures a year just through the
content i put out on linkedin alone and
just because i literally ramble on about
seo and websites every day share tips
share stories um much like you do on on
demand gen and dark social and every now
every week we'll get a few inbound
through that
as well as that we'll look to capture
existing demands of people are searching
for seo web services will be on google
ads we'll be on the review sites but
we'll also be on seo so
wouldn't be doing whilst
i completely agree if you are capturing
existing demand you're always going to
be compete we're nearly always going to
be competing against other companies um
and you won't have that brand affinity
at least most of the time if people are
splendor neutral
but wouldn't it make sense to go full
full steam at both providing you've got
the resources and you're not swamping
kind of your marketing team or whoever's
going to be putting out the content and
running
running the ads and running the sa
yeah i think provided that you have the
resources that might make sense to me
um but one of the things that we've done
is that we put a how did you hear about
us on our forum where people will
convert and say hey i want to talk to
your sales team about using you right
now
and then you get the data of what
attribution software says that they came
from whether it's hubspot or visible or
any other tools it doesn't matter what
tool they all have the same limitations
you have that tool and you get what your
customer said about where they heard
about you initially
and when you have that data which most
companies don't have the trend that
we've seen that i bet if companies did
this on their own they might get a
similar trend is that every time a buyer
comes in and says i and they declare i
found you in seo they are the worst fit
customers and they never become
customers they're not qualified or
different things like that and so
depending on what you sell
i think that you could get something
like if you have a small
narrow niche
um
like
buying google ads or optimizing search
for my company for marketing agency or
even sas marketing agency is really not
a good move um
and so those are some of the experiences
for me but i'd encourage every peop
everyone to test and i would definitely
encourage people to put that on their
form how did you hear about us because
you will see clear patterns about what
buyer where buyers say that they found
you versus whether or not they become
pipeline or revenue
yeah yeah i'd certainly agree with the
form side of things and also asking
people on sales because like you said
sometimes people even put on those
inquiry forms like it was google ad or
as organic search or as linkedin and
then when you actually speak to them on
the phone they might say well i found
you on linkedin then i did a google
search then i looked at a podcast and i
spoke to my friend and he recommended
you then i spoke to my network so the
buyer's journey is often a very fickle
one as you say so it's it's quite
interesting when you actually
chat to chapter prospects chapter buyers
about how they stumble across you and
it's just a balance between how many
resources do you have and how do you
deploy those resources most efficiently
to build both short-term and long-term
growth
and my belief right now is that the
resources that companies spend to do
certain things that are capturing demand
would be much better spent taking that
50 000 a month they pay for an agency
six in-house content writers to write
blogs a graphic design firm to do stuff
a little bit of ads to push it in social
or and a little bit of ads to promote it
in google ads they took all those
resources and money and they took that
and put together a podcast or they put
together a live event that happens once
a week that people love or they hire
people to to be subject matter experts
and build a community whatever but i
just think if you if it comes down to it
it would company we're talking about 50k
a month so resources are limited how are
you going to use those resources in the
most efficient way to drive growth
yeah and that makes sense so on the
content front
if we let's say we've put together our
audience that we want to attack we want
to target we want to start
having buying conversations qualified
buying conversations with
what some best practices that you've
utilized or customers utilize chris to
actually make sure that we're
educating them
we're
helping them we're
positioning our company as kind of the
authority in our sector but we're
actually providing content that's not
just ramming our product or service down
the neck
but is saying look we're here to help
this is
hinting at that this is what we can do
and at the same time realizing that this
is not a click your fingers overnight
job this is something that in several
months will start getting inbound
qualified opportunities for
i'm smiling for the people that are
listening afterwards i love this
question because
there is no hiding
when you're operating in a dark social
strategy you can't hide behind website
traffic visits or number of searches or
attribution or things like that
it's clear and you know whether or not
the stuff is resonating or working
because of how people respond
and so the the best way that i found for
people to do this is put on an event
every week for a year
and measure how many times people come
back
measure how many repeat attendees you
you have in there and you'll that people
will tell you based on their attendance
whether or not it was valuable
and so those are some interesting ways
for people to look at how am i actually
making an impact here like we've had
people we're gonna do episode 100 of my
live show we've been doing it every
tuesday for almost two years tonight and
there are people that were on episode
one
that are still going to be there forever
almost every episode until episode 100
and have gotten multiple promotions or
started a new job or done a different
career move or whatever they did
since then and so because we provided
professional value that continues to
move them forward they continue to come
if you put out content and people engage
with it and like it and it continues to
grow
then again you're getting signals that
people like it and can and consume it so
there when if you're putting stuff out
and nobody's liking it it's not
linkedin's fault
it's not tick-tock's fault it's it's
your the content that you're building
and the strategy is not there
um and so
that's how that's the reason that i like
it it requires companies to stop hiding
behind
quantitative metrics and actually look
at what people actually say
what comments do they leave how often do
they engage what do they what questions
they ask when they're on the event these
are how do they react when you say
things how many times do they come back
every month these are the things the
human
characteristics that are necessary and
required in order to win in dark social
which is different than everything that
b2b companies have done before
yeah
so we're talking about actually getting
live feedback from let's say if we're if
we're using linkedin as a channel to put
out the content perhaps people are
asking questions that are relevant to it
perhaps they're engaging with it perhaps
they're liking the content perhaps
they're going the direct messages and
saying i found this really useful what
are your thoughts on this um is that
what we're talking about
totally yeah
gotcha and
is this all organic chris so is this
just a case of putting out posts in your
experience on linkedin or starting our
own podcast
or
whether it's tick tock um
or whatever channel we we realize that
our customers are hanging out on how
much of this is organic how much should
be
a paid strategy to actually distribute
the content in front of more potential
buyers obviously you can use channels
like linkedin where you can really
segment and drill down on a target
audience or
can it purely work from an organic
non-paid perspective yeah i think the
answer for most companies listed into
this podcast is both
um and the details of how you think
about both of these could be almost
exactly the same the only difference is
whether you're paying to guarantee
distribution to exactly who you want
or whether you're using organic which is
free but you can't guarantee it to
exactly who you want
and so
i think that it makes sense for
companies to be doing both to have an
organic strategy
that they're putting out content that
they're trying to grow an audience that
they're the people are sharing engaging
the audience is growing
and you're getting traction and growth
there
and you have a paid strategy that you
put forward that's going after exactly
your target accounts decision makers and
influencers of those target accounts
with content
not dms where you offer somebody a gift
card to sit on a demo
not sending a dm saying hey we just
automated spam saying hey we just got uh
we just got connected do you want to
have a meeting about buying this stuff
these are because of the mindset the
companies bring to paid they drive it's
just it's sales
um and so when we're in
dark social and social networks using
advertising i'd encourage companies to
think about doing marketing not and and
leaning less towards sales and then the
places to lean towards sales are things
like seo or search generally paid
organic search
um
review sites
when they're actually on your website
when you have intent data that's when
you start to do sales
um but
that yeah so that would be the
difference for me
got it got it and
that that was a funny one that quite a
lot of businesses right now are doing um
hundred dollar gift cards fifty dollar
gift cards book a demo with us get
something from the airpods it was crazy
i was scrolling through my linkedin feed
a couple days ago i have a video of it
i'm going to post it at some point i was
going through the linkedin feed and four
ads in a row looked exactly the same
from four different companies said a
hundred dollar gift card for to to sit
on a demo
and it's just like bribing people if
you're a marketer or a business and you
have a good product why do you need to
do this stuff like all you need to do is
be able to communicate to people
the things that the benefits and the the
problems and actually create demand
actually do marketing not gimmicks
which then have people educated and
actually want to buy stuff instead of
sitting on your demo
to hit metrics to get their gift card
and then never buy stuff and all you're
doing is wasting your sales team's time
that's going to say i'd be interested to
know the companies that are running that
what is the actual percentage of those
demos that are converting to closed
deals
yeah interesting yeah we're uh
we are close to having enough data to
pull this um
but uh
it's not great is is what i've said what
i've seen but we need a larger sample
size before i make any statements like
that
got it yeah that doesn't shock me too
much so
quick one chris on content before we can
wrap this up with how we can other ways
we can attribute this to revenue um what
are some best practices that you found
so you're putting out content much most
days
on linkedin i know you're running the
live podcast once a week and doing other
bits and pieces too
what have you
found
is a good way to make sure that what you
put out whether it's on linkedin whether
it's a podcast well that's another
channel that you've worked out that your
customers are actually actively using on
so you can get in front of them to make
sure that what you're putting whether
that's video text content is actually
going to resonate with them and is
actually going to educate them or
provide them something of use
so over time you're positioned as the go
to expert in your sector
because i listen to how they respond
it's not it's it's this is not
complicated like i said do a bunch of
market research
create a community where you're putting
out information and people are giving
you clear immediate feedback about
whether it's resonating or not what
questions they have things like that
and then i listen to what questions
people have what things aren't clear
where they have objections and different
things like that and then that drives my
future strategy people think that it's
done i post and then it's done all i'm
going to do is just push it out
and what they actually need to be
thinking about is pushing it out
is where it starts then i'm going to be
engaging i'm going to be listening i'm
going to be having conversations i'm
going to be reading dms i'm seeing how
people react and that's where you get
the insights and the feedback to say hey
i didn't explain this topic well i need
to change how i do that this thing
really worked we should keep going in
that track let's go and find somebody
that's an expert in that thing we can
have them in our podcast we're going to
keep driving home that topic
the listening is where people miss out
because they think that their to their
time is especially with executives oh my
time's too valuable to do linkedin
and it's like i literally have
conversations with thousands of buyers
at scale how is that not the most
valuable thing that you could do as an
executive
yeah
yeah yeah linkedin's a funny one i mean
like you say so many people have proven
to that it if you're consistent with it
if you can actually put out copy that or
post whether it's video whether it's
text content whatever that's actually
going to resonate with potential buyers
that over time it's going to build that
trust it's going to build that
reputation it's going to build those
inbound um qualified leads where they're
coming through your website whether
they're coming for the dms but still
trying to get by in this hard work
even after you've proven to whether it's
your c-suite whether it's your
colleagues i've never found it easy to
get that buy-in have you have you found
any ways chris
perhaps
very simple it's because most companies
don't think about anything like
marketing they only think about it like
sales and what we're talking about here
is marketing
the way that i found to get over this
which is really interesting is that i
all i do is i do marketing and then the
people that are attracted to what i'm
saying self-select and then come and
work with us and so i let the instead of
instead of going outbound and trying to
convince people that don't know any of
these concepts in order to try and
convince them to learn all of them which
is hard all i do is put out the
information and then wait for people to
self-select and come and work with us
which leads to short sale cycles long
customer lifetime values good alignment
with our team
low you know a lot of good metrics there
yeah so we talked about earlier adding a
how did you hear about us
inquiry form field to your contact form
to your calendars however you get your
demo request your consultation request
whatever your main call-to-action is on
your website to drive people into your
sales funnel
what
other ways have you found to attribute
dark social to sales revenue
when a lot of ceos a lot of marketing
leaders are going to say look we want x
amount of leads coming in i don't want
to do
dark social now because we need x amount
of leads to feed our sales team this
quarter and i'm really not convinced
that if our team start doing this it's
actually going to drive the the sales or
the revenue we need for the quarter
ahead what are some of the
what would be your your response to that
if you want a bunch of leads that have
low intent to buy and usually don't
close to quote unquote feed your sdrs
aka you've over hired sales people and
now you need to do something to keep
them busy so you put marketing
responsible for driving low productivity
leads into your sales team to keep them
busy like if you want to do that then
don't consider dark social it's not
right for you that's not the strategy
the strategy here is we're going to
drive high intent buyers that are super
likely to close that close at 10 instead
of 0.1 percent when you do it
which leads to super high efficiencies
on the sales side and changes how you
actually go to market and build and
scale your company
and so if you think that you need a
bunch of leads and you're allocating all
the budget to get to leads then just
then just don't focus on dark social
maybe it's not the right thing to do for
you right now
the thing that i present when companies
do that is i go in and analyze their
data and i show them out of all the
leads that they're getting how many how
much revenue they're closing which like
i mentioned before when you're running
low intent lead gen inside of paid
social channels so linkedin facebook and
instagram
content syndication youtube other places
like that non-intent based channels when
you're doing it in more social channels
the typical win rate is that i see is
point one percent from raw lead to win
which means that your sdrs and your
sales team need to talk to a thousand
buyers to win one deal
and then i try and show them what it
would be like if they wanted to scale
that to 50 or 100 million are
and what it would look like at 50
million when they need whatever 75 sdrs
to keep up with that garbage
and then i show them that their total
addressable market isn't even big enough
to get that many leads
and the model literally breaks which is
why a lot of companies that are in
series c d or e but typically c and d
enter with us because they've realized
that what they're doing right now will
never scale
that they won't get from 30 million to
100 million doing what they're doing
right now
and it's been really interesting
recently because
oftentimes the people that are coming to
us are now
the head of sales
that realize that what's going on they
need to change their go to market it's
been very interesting to see a shift
happening right now because
the sales leaders know that the shit's
broken
oh it's going to say probably because
they're getting fed [__] mqs marketing
so we're getting it we used to be like
almost
highly weighted toward marketing and now
it's like probably 50 50 sales and
marketing that we're talking to and
oftentimes the best relationships are
when we're talking to both
so um that's like to get back on track
to the question like
if you need a bunch of leads then don't
do this but you should analyze your data
and you should get a clear understanding
of the performance of what's happening
right now and whether or not that will
scale with your business most people
don't even do that analysis all they do
is say we need more leads let's go
um and so that analysis will point out
to you what's going on so if you can get
over that and you see that and now you
want to actually move into a dark social
strategy what i've recommended for
companies what we've built at my company
and what we've rolled out to more than
30 sas companies will continue to do so
is you need to have multiple ways of
looking at attribution
you need to have one layer that is
actually using attribution software that
you use right now maybe you ate that at
you have another one where you asked the
buyer what they actually where they
heard about you on your high intent
conversion form from marketing
and you asked them how did you hear
about you and maybe you ate that at 30
maybe when you're on the call you ask
the questions and whether you i want to
try and figure out a way to make it
automated so it's not subjective so if
you wanted to use gong i haven't done
this before i'm not even sure that it
would be technically feasible or want to
maybe they'll do it i don't know
but maybe you do that and then there's
some analysis about that component of it
and there's another piece of just doing
general market research and qualitative
market research to understand where
people get information where you buy
stuff then you have multiple sources of
information about how you actually
decide on attribution to guide strategy
and i want to guide people back to the
whole reason that attribution exists
attribution exists to guide strategy
decisions
it's somehow become a place where we
need to go into use it to defend roi and
prove our budget to cfos because
technology vendors have trained us to
think that way
that's not what it's meant to be for
and so what i've encouraged companies to
do is measure marketing differently
score marketing on how much how much
revenue marketing drives against how
much you spend on marketing and
benchmark that against your industry
your vc your pe group or whatever else
you want to do we're going to build
those benchmarks so companies have that
so they have courage and and the data
necessary to actually change how they
measure marketing measure marketing
based on pure results
if the results are there
then after that then you start looking
at the attribution component
and the two that we're using mainly is
the software base which is going to tell
you what captured the demand
super highly weighted toward lower
funnel channels like google organic
search paid search direct traffic um
direct response
channels like review sites if you're
doing direct response for paid social
all those things
and then you have a how did you hear
about us where the buyer tells you how
they heard about you we have all that
information every time a submission
comes it pushes into slack so everyone
at the company can see what is the
attribution software saying what is the
buyer saying what's their job title what
company are they from
every other detail that we have about
them so everyone sees what's happening
it happens five or seven times a day for
us
and then we can stack it up that data
inside of a crm and look at it at the
raw conversion level at the sales
qualified opportunity level at the
revenue level and when you look at it at
the revenue level it becomes very
interesting in our data last time i
checked attribution software says about
80 of our revenue comes through organic
search or direct traffic
and when you ask the buyer what they say
zero percent
say that
and eight about eighty percent come from
social and podcast combined and then the
other twenty percent is from word of
mouth or recommendations
and then when you see that data at scale
over a six or nine month period of time
you're like huh
the people that actually buy from us are
saying these things
that what software's saying is different
maybe we should think about how do we
use this information this is great
information how do we use this
information to drive a better strategy
well everyone else thinks all their
revenue is coming from seo and paid
search and spending three our
competitors spend 300 000 a month on
paid search
what we have here is all of our revenue
doesn't come from there even though
we're spending that much money on paid
search what if we took that 300 we
started to invest it differently we
hired a subject matter expert we did
events we built community and content we
started distributing that using paid ads
and social channels where people are
saying they discover us when they buy
and then you change your strategy
overall so
um that is something that we continue to
evolve and work on we rolled it out with
companies um as we learn
uh and gather new data we'll continue to
update our thinking on that
i like it and like you said there i'd um
as we talked about earlier in the show a
lot of customers will say
the source they found you was the end
bottom of the funnel thing that they
searched whether that was google no yes
software will say that um what the buyer
will say is them they'll tell you the
most impactful channel
and i've found sometimes chris that even
on the inquiry form if you have a how
how did you hear about us and even as
the customers initial answer they'll
give it until you dig deeper i've found
because i i run quite a lot of the sales
even though i can the company i get on
quite a lot of sales schools which i
think you do too still
and
sometimes you've got a scratch meets us
because they might say they did a search
or they clicked an ad and then you say
all right what led you to that and then
asking kind of digging a little bit
below the surface level you'll get some
useful intel um and that might be i've
followed you on linkedin for a while or
i've listened to your podcast for a
while or whatever they've done and then
they decided to search for it and then
they click the ad so yeah just guess
going a bit deeper which you kind of
alluded to yeah we don't see that level
of discrepancy in our data with our
stuff
um uh
some companies will use a drop-down menu
in the how did you hear about us forum
which will bias the answers limit the
data that customers can tell you if you
use a drop down menu you should change
that immediately because of what i said
no bias the answers we use a free text
field and we get great data we get rich
data hey i was i was friends with this
person they did a live event with you i
started after the live event i started
listening to the podcast i started
following your ceo on linkedin and now
i'm here converting we get all that
information in a free text field and
then we automatically categorize that
into buckets afterwards
through automation
and that's what i would recommend but we
don't see anywhere near that level of
discrepancy between what people say on
the forum and what they say on a sales
call
yeah fair enough and i appreciate it
might vary from companies to companies
but to wrap this up
what are some of the areas where dark
social can fall short
i.e
let's say you've built up a heck of a
personal brand on linkedin and you're
educating your audience they're
following you perhaps they know your
company inside out and what you can do
for them and then perhaps they do a good
direct search on google for your brand
but you're nowhere to be found you're
nowhere in organic search you've got no
paid ads running um so effectively dead
and then
they do search it but your competitors
bidding on your own brand terms and
google ads and perhaps they click the ad
thinking it's you and they even go
through the demo requests from are there
any kind of you need to bloody do this
otherwise you're going to fall short of
the last hurdle of all the demand you've
built and all the kind of dark social
that's been flowing are there any kind
of massive mistakes that you've seen
companies fall at the last last hurdle
on or just general kind of you need to
do this otherwise you might kind of miss
miscapturing the demand at the last
minute
i want people to think about
when they
have
be engaged and been with either a b2b
company or a b2c company on social or
otherwise for a long period of time and
then when they wanted to buy what they
did
you go to google you search it you don't
even look at those you go to the first
organic link the brand's always going to
show up at the first organic link you
click and you go and you buy
and so these companies you the people
that think that you their competitors
slide in and steal deals for 100k
software by doing that
you're not doing marketing well enough
people people know whether or not
they're buying from the company that
they listen to over time and so i'm not
like we spend no time on that i'm not
concerned i'm guessing that somebody
bids on refined lab's brand
um
and
it really doesn't matter to me we've
built so much affinity that if someone's
someone's not going to slide in there
and steal deals
i think that the place where
um
companies miss overall
um when they think about dark social is
not
if they actually did that right which is
really hard to do volume consistency
actually putting out content that people
want doing it over a long period of time
engaging and building a community
having a message that's that is
connected to the business strategy and
the things that you're trying to
accomplish they did all that right
then
the thing that most people miss after
that is actually delivering on the
experience which comes i call it product
but it's actually product and customer
experience and buying experience
combined everything post marketing is
where i think companies miss where
buyers would love to buy your stuff
but they can't get into a meeting with a
sales rep because your process is broken
or they can be a demo or they can't see
pricing because you want to hide it like
it's 2011.
or i did a post about that earlier
actually they might have b2b websites to
hide their pricing or
make it complex to see what their rates
are or to book a demo and let you set up
like if you set up a product led a
product led motion where it's not ready
and people just go in click sign up
hit a dead end in the product say hey
this isn't for me and bail out there are
so many ways that come like that you
companies can get a buyer to want to buy
and then they fail to deliver on what
they need to to get the buyer to
actually buy i think that's the miss
it's not at the tactical level of like
showing up in search in my view it's
actually delivering on the promise
yeah that's a good point on the final
hurdle as well like you say making sure
your actual website is geared up to make
it as easy as possible
for prospects that land on it to know
exactly what you do how you can help
them and then guide them to whether it's
book that demo book that console call
rather than trying to ram a white paper
down their neck or whatever you think
it's gonna gonna work making it really
easy for them to actually speak to sales
and deliver that value prop that they
care about um which should be led
against your company's um sorry against
your target customers kind of problems
or what they want to improve in their
business so with that said chris
it's been a very enjoyable episode sir
thanks for guarding up guiding us
through the dark social ins and outs and
with that please do tell us more about
how everyone tuning in can learn more
about yourself connect with you a bit
more about your business and the podcast
awesome yeah feel free to uh to connect
with me on linkedin uh my that's chris
walker on linkedin
and then uh would definitely encourage
you to check out the state of demand gen
podcast available on apple and spotify
and other platforms uh we have over 50
000 listeners now across the world which
is amazing
and we cover all topics for it's called
state of demand but we've started to
expand we're talking about career go to
overall go to market strategy outbound
uh there's a lot uh there's a lot of
information there that people can get
value from and so we encourage you to
check it out if you're interested
nice one dude that is my go-to podcast
while i'm cruising in the car usually
trying to get our little one to sleep
for his uh nap time to pick up some
marketing tips so definitely check out
the state of demand podcast and congrats
on hitting episode live 100 which i
think you're going to do tonight chris
so big milestone nice work i really
appreciate that and thanks for having me
on the show sam yeah no worries dude
thanks again and as always if you did
enjoy the show a quick rating on your
podcast channel or subscribe on youtube
is much appreciated we share actual
marketing tips to grow your business's
revenue each and every week and with
that we should catch you on the next one
all the episode notes will be on
dot businessgrowth.marketing
cheers